All right guys welcome back.
So far in this PR section of our course we've talked about how to get press coverage for your product
or business understanding reporters and their needs is a helpful part of figuring out how to pitch them
effectively so that in mind I've got four steps for getting coverage.
I want to discuss now those four steps are basically we got to find them.
The writers the reporters got to research them learn what they like.
Contact them.
And we had to do that correctly and then we need to finally go in for the kill and work on our pitch.
In this lecture I want to talk about the first step and that's finding them.
So you're gonna get involved in these PR efforts first.
You do follow and read articles and coverage from outlets in your industry or area.
You have to know what's going on who people are talking about what competitors are doing especially
who is writing about it all.
Are there big media blogs publishing multiple articles a day.
Are there smaller blogs written by one person or they're posting once a week.
Whatever industry you're in.
The answer is most likely yes.
And so you need to find them.
So let's consider a scenario here.
Maybe you've invented a new kind of selfie stick.
That's not completely lame or a hat that turns your iPhone into a GoPro.
I don't know.
So you've got your tech accessory.
Chances are you're following tech accessory blog sites and other sites that publish reviews and news
and opinions about accessories for iPhones things like that.
You're not already following these sources well it's time that you did.
You need to be aware of what current events are happening and especially what's happening in your industry.
So which websites blogs and media outlets do people go to for information about products like yours.
Start by listing them somewhere like in a spreadsheet.
Now Google Sheets excel file.
It's going to do just fine.
Start with those places and then try to check them out every day or follow them on Twitter or Facebook
or if you want to subscribe to them via email.
Now who's got your attention when it comes to this industry.
Content.
Just make a list of those sites or outlets to first start off at this stage.
Just write down what you can.
Don't spend a lot of time really kind of needling through all their stuff to figure out which one is
perfect for you.
Now if you're finding that your list is short because you're only going off of things you've bookmarked
or off the top of your head well jumped out to Google and look for some more.
Now when you're doing this remember you're looking for relevant places not related ones.
Now here's what I mean if you google tech accessories blog you might see Terry Wright from Adobe and
his tech blog listed.
Well the thing is even with thousands of followers his blog doesn't look like the right fit for you.
If you make iPhone holders or accessories and it doesn't take long to figure this out.
Look at his post titles.
Just start scrolling through and read a couple of them or the navigation up top and you'll see it refers
to a lot of Adobe topics photography and well not iPhone accessories.
So if something is not a clear and obvious fit either go to the next search result or try a different
search term.
If you go out to Google and try a new search term like iPhone accessories blog well you'll find more
relevant places like this one.
Here's one called Eye lounge.
You can see they have a section called gear that list a bunch of iPhone related accessories and your
phone holder hat or whatever thing you've invented could easily be listed here alongside other products
they reviewed.
Look for clear and obvious fits like this and then add those to your list.
Now if you wanna make your search a little bit easier here's a quick tip.
There's a website called all top a l l t OPI dot com.
Now what they do is they combine and aggregate all the top blogs and outlets on a given subject hence
the name all top all top can offer a great roundup of sites on a lot of different given subjects.
And the iPhone section of all top for example can give you some helpful leads for relevant sites that
write about iPhone products and businesses.
Honestly just copy all of those ones down.
They've kind of done the work for you.
Try to give each source a look at a quick one by skimming the headlines.
If you see something promising click through and then see if it might match the same time topic coverage.
If that's the case then add it to your list.
Now once you've got let's say I don't know 10 to 15 sites you want to go to each one and see who exactly
is doing all the writing and reporting.
Keep this in mind pitching to a blog or outlet is possible but you'll have a much better chance at being
noticed if you pitch the individual writing stories instead.
Now some blogs have a form that you can fill out but you really chance getting lost in a mountain of
similar pitches reaching out to the individual reporter or the person behind the content is the better
strategy here.
And that's what we're doing in this lecture.
So let's find these journalists.
Let's go back to your list and then let's start with one source.
What set that I lounge Web site and look at who's writing their reviews.
Since there are a lot of different kinds of products you'd ideally look for a view about something like
yours.
Your product is unique like our iPhone Holder wearable whatever.
Look for the closest thing either by looking for an article about a similar function or a part of a
product.
Now the purpose of our product is make videos more personal and interesting.
So if we scroll through we see eye launch has reviews of like here's a wide angle lens.
Let's give that one a look.
We see that this is written by a guy named Jesse Holton and a link out to his Twitter profile shows
he's a senior editor of Eye lounge.
Okay now we've got something.
Add this name to your spreadsheet next to eye instead of a vague idea of who might write about you.
Now you've a name and a Twitter handle while you're on Twitter might as well go ahead and follow them.
Now maybe just the perfect person on this site to write about you but if you just look at what he's
written there's a good chance that this is kind of in his ballpark.
Now if the site looks promising.
Around more articles in search of other writers.
If you find relevant matches that is if you find people writing about products like yours add them to
your list.
It's cool if you have multiple people for one outlet for the bigger sites.
You might actually find a whole bunch of different writers for smaller ones.
Maybe you find one good lead doesn't really matter either way.
Add these people to your list even if your list of 10 to 15 sites returns 10 to 15 names.
Now you're a lot closer to figuring out who to contact when you have a pitch in mind.
This process of going through your reading list and Googling in search of new sources is a good first
step to find the reporters and media members you want to pitch in for some reason you're having trouble
finding these individual people.
Well it's usually easy you find the articles you think match he usually gonna have a byline it's okay
written by using click that person and you can go to their profile.
Sorry you can't click that then just try searching within the site for that person's name search google
for their name plus the Web site.
If that doesn't work and have a specific enough name maybe you can just search their name and use that
as a way to track down how you can find them on Twitter and contact them.
Protip realize that Twitter is fantastic for press.
Almost all people who write or do you press or reporters any kind of coverage at all are going to be
on Twitter for whatever reason.
Now of course we can also use tools that perform similar actions what we just did for example site called
Buzz stream is an app that helps you create a database of prospects you connect with and contact gives
you a mechanism to create campaigns or you can personally pitch people with influence in your industry.
Now Buzz dream they have a free trial available but the lowest I think the plan is like 25 bucks a month
which allows you to track up to 1000 contacts which is an enormous amount of people.
It's a great system for tracking it especially you're going to take PR seriously.
It's a great way to handle this.
I'm not super organized so I usually use some type of management system like this that can help me no
shortcuts.
Speaking of shortcuts is in our service called just reach out and it's another service where you type
in a keyword that describes your startup with the name of a competitor and then it shows you a list
of journalists that have written about it or something similar then you can email those journalists
using templates they provide to pitch yourself.
Now this one is a little bit more pricey.
Cost sixty five dollars a month and higher depending on how much you need to service.
However you know they have a database and that does actually save you a lot of time.
If I have a very specific angle I mean the alternative is a goodly sites that I think might possibly
cover this angle then dig around till I find someone who might have touched on it.
It basically takes a lot of time what they've done is just use an algorithm to kind of match people
to certain keywords so keep that in mind.
Their database might be outdated and it might not be perfectly accurate but it could save you a lot
of time.
Now the question is just then does it save you sixty five dollars a month worth of time.
Depends how serious you are about PR.
If you're ready to jump into a higher level of research and PR outreach well tools like these might
be worth considering but for a lot of you watching this lecture I feel like the spreadsheet list and
research is actually just a great way to get your hands dirty and review your industry at the same time.
And our next lecture will get into the next step in this process where we look at our list of reporters
and get to know them a bit better looking for stronger matches.
Sound good.
Okay see you in the next 1.